To put in simple terms, the RDF is the
interatomic separation histogram representing the weighted
probability of finding a pair of atoms separated by a given
distance

Our adapted RDF
scores in a MOF framework can be interpreted as the weighted
probability distribution to find an atom pair in a spherical
volume of radius R inside the unit cell according to the eq 1.


The RDFs can be weighted to fit the
requirements of the chemical information to be represented, by
introducing the atomic properties Pi. We weight the radial
probabilities by three tabulated atomic properties namely
electronegativity, polarizability, and van der Waals volume,
whose values are given in Table S1 of the Supporting
Information. While a regular RDF function encodes geometric
features, the atomic property weighted radial distribution

function (AP-RDF) additionally characterizes the chemical
features within a MOF.
The AP-RDF profiles for two well-known MOFs, MIL-4744
and IRMOF-1,45 are shown in Figure 1 for three atomic
properties, the electronegativity, polarizability, and van der
Waals volume. The effect of the smoothing parameter B on the
AP-RDF profiles is also given in Figure 1. As can be observed,
the lower the value of the parameter B, the higher the absolute
value of the scores and the smoother the shape of the AP-RDF
profile. Consequently, AP-RDF profiles for B = 100 were very
noisy and those for B = 1 were featureless. Both extremes
hindered the correlation with functional properties and, we
found that B = 10 yielded an optimum trade-off between
structural information content and smoothness.
A smoothing parameter B = 10 was used for all AP-RDF
profiles used in this work. Additionally, a distance range of 2.0
to 30.0 Å in steps of 0.25 Å was used for all calculations. In this
way, we computed 113 scores per atomic property, yielding a
total of 339 AP-RDF scores or descriptors for each MOF. Both
the AP-RDF scores and geometrical features were linearly
normalized in the range [−1, 1], where −1 and 1 correspond to
the minimum and maximum values of each variable,
respectively.

